This video is brought to you by Sailrite.
in this video were going to make a shower
curtain out of Surlast fabric
and were also going to use the large curtain
grommets.
Since our current needs to be seventy five
inches high and the materials only sixty inches
were going to add a panel to the top portion
of the curtain here to extend its height
were going to use a semi flat felled seam
here that's the top stitch and on the bottom
side
this is the underside or the inside of the
shower curtain.
So that is a semi flat felled seam to join
the panel to make extra height.
At the head here were the grommets will be
placed,
we simply cut a strip of material here and
hemmed the edges
and then sewed it to the top to create reinforcement
for the curtain grommets.
The grommet should be placed in at least a
four inch header and two layers is sufficient
for reinforcement.
Then on all three of the other edges we will
just create a double hem to complete those.
These are the curtain grommets and inside
the curtain grommet box
there is a template that you could use to
trace where each one of
these grommets will be placed in your curtain.
Grommets are typically space anywhere from
seven inches to eight inches apart we’ve
already measured the
top edge of our shower curtain here and now
were using the template to mark each location
for the cutouts for each one of the curtain
grommets.
Once all the locations are marked then simply
time to cut out the material.
We will use scissors here and just cut a hole
in center and then cut around our traced edge.
Do that for each one of the grommet positions.
Each set of grommets as a prong side and a
raised side.
This is the prongs side or the Teeth side
of the grommet.
The opposite side is the raised side, here.
The raised side goes on the right side of
the fabric so positioned it in to the hole
that you cut
then position one of the prong grommets over
the top and then just simply snap in place.
The curtain grommet is now installed. No special
tools are required!
Here we are doing it again, we placed the
raised side on the right side of the fabric
and the prong side on the wrong side of the
fabric and then press firmly until they snap
and it is installed.
This color of Curtin grommet that were using
today is called brushed silver.
There are many other colors available at the
Sailrite website. Be sure to check those out
as well.
This size grommet will accommodate rods up
to one and three eights inch diameter.
Once the holes were cut out of the head of
your curtain, installation in super fast.
Here we are showing it in fast forward.
Now that our shower curtain is complete let's
take it to the shower and install it on the
rod.
Again the curtain grommets will accommodate
rods up to one in three eights inch in diameter.
There it is complete, looks great!
These curtain grommets are great for shower
curtains but also great for window treatment
applications
where you want to hang a curtain on a head
rod.
I am Eric Grant with Sailrite, thanks for
watching this video!